---
layout: post
title: Pastry
group: recipe
categories: Basics
tags: 
---

## Shortcrust

This is sufficient for a double crust 23cm / 9" pie.

- 220g / 8 oz plain flour
- 110g / 4 oz fat (either all butter, or half/half butter and lard)
- pinch salt
- approx 3 tbs cold water

Make sure that the fat is straight from the fridge.  Sift the flour
into a mixing bowl, and cut up the fat with a cold knife into the
flour, so that it becomes coated with the flour as you cut it.  Rub
well in, using only the tips of your fingers.  Bring together with the
least amount of water and kneading possible, then wrap in
foil/clingfilm and leave in the fridge for 30 minutes to 4 hours
before rolling out.

Alternative is to put the flour and fat into a food processor, and
give a couple of pulses.  When the texture of fine breadcrumbs,
gradual add rhe water with a couple more pulses until it starts to
come together.  Less is better.

## Pȃté Brisée

- 250g bread flour
- 205g butter
- 3g salt
- 55g water

Same method as above. This is basically just switching in bread flour
and extra fat (the higher protein bread flour can take more fat).

You can chill the crust before baking blind.

This is enough for a 10" / 25cm tart.

## Pȃté Sucrée

- 340g flour
- 100g sugar
- tsp salt
- 220g butter
- 2 egg yolks
- 1-4 tbs water

Blend the flour, sugar and salt.  Then blend in the butter, either by
hand or by pulsing in a food processor.

Add the yolks in the same way.  The result should still resemble a
fine breadcrumb.

Gradually add the water until it starts to come together.  Chill as
above.

Enough for a 10" tart case.

