---
layout: post
title: Scones
group: recipe
categories: Cakes
tags: 
---


- 220g / 8oz SR flour
- pinch of salt
- 60g / 2oz butter
- 30g / 1 oz caster sugar
- 4 fl oz milk

Mix the flour and salt, then rub in the butter to reach a breadcrumbs texture.  Use cool butter (and cold hands), and you can cut it into the flour with a knife before finally rubbing in with your fingers.  The aim is to reach a very fine, almost sandy, texture, without melting the butter from the heat of your hands; you should be able to feel no 'free' butter in the mix when you are done.  Use cool hands (which is why old people make better scones and children can't do it at all), with a pinching action that tries to keep a layer of flour between your fingertips and the butter at all times.  

Stir in the sugar, then add the milk; you want just enough to bring the mix together into a dough; most books suggest 5 fl oz for this quantity, but I wouldn't be surprised if you could get away with only 2-3 fl oz.  Add more if you need it.  The dough can take some light kneading, but keep it to an absolute minimum.

Make sure the oven is at 220C / 425F, gas mark 7/8.  Grease a baking sheet.  Roll out the dough to 2cm+ thick, then cut out into 2" rounds; you can use a jar, cup or mug.  Knead (lightly) together the scraps of dough, and repeat.  Brush the tops with a little milk (or beaten egg).

Bake for 10 - 15 minutes, depending on the oven.  The tops should be lightly browned.  Allow to cool, and serve with jam and clotted cream or butter.

Variation: can add a half a teaspoon of baking powder with the salt.  Too much gives the scones a bitter flavour, without they can be a little bland - but it helps them to rise.
