---
layout: post
title: "101 Kitchen Gear"
description: "Essential for Survival"
category: Misc
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

##Ingredients
- Salt
- Black peppercorns (in grinder)
- Chili flakes
- Cumin seeds
- Oregano
- Vegetable oil
- Butter
- Cheddar cheese
- Tomato purée
- Garlic, onions
- Tinned tomatoes
- Plain flour
- Stock cubes
- Porridge oats
- Rice

##Equipment
- 2 plates
- 2 bowls
- 2 mugs
- 2 tumblers
- 2 wine glasses
- 2 knife/fork/spoon
- 6-8” cooks knife
- paring knife
- silicon spatula
- milk pan
- large saucepan
- small casserole
- small frying pan
- plastic chopping board

##Equipment
You want to eat, and you hope to entertain. So make sure that you have some place settings. This means at least 2 plates, ideally white with decent raised edges; plus bowls - ideally ones that could suit dessert, cereal, pasta and other uses.  Then 2 sets of knife, fork and spoon, and 2 tumblers and 2 (large) wine glasses.  You also need 2-4 mugs for coffee/tea - half pint to half litre in size.

Next is cooking.  One extremely sharp, good quality knife: a general purpose cooks knife, 6-8” is ideal.  A small (4”) paring knife is useful, but less important: you can peel potatoes, if you ever need to, with a potato peeler or a good pocket knife.  Scissors do a very good job of chopping herbs, some small vegetables, and cutting meat, if you need.   A plastic chopping board will help keep things clean.  You can mix uses between raw meat and other items, if you wash it well between uses; this won’t keep Health & Safety at bay, but then you’re not a professional.  Add a silicon spatula (or a wooden spatula). Then you need a small saucepan, the type called a milk pan, and a small frying pan (again, 6-8”).  When you can, a large saucepan with a lid is good: for cooking pasta, vegetables and other items.  A casserole is also important: about 1 litre.  Cast iron frying pans are best, but you may have to put up with cheap non-stick and change when they expire.  Casserole again is best in cast iron, but Pyrex is good (just don’t put on direct heat).

Can opener; and grater.  Tupperware: various sized plastic containers.

##Store Cupboard
You need salt and pepper.  Go for pure salt (rather than table salt) if you can; and black peppercorns, which you can buy in a small grinder easily.

Basic herbs and seasonings: chili flakes; cumin seeds; oregano.  Seeds and flakes last longer than powder; and oregano is the only herb that has much flavour when dried.

Try to keep butter and cheese, which have many uses; ideally some medium cheddar, and possibly some Gran Padano (cheaper than parmesan).  A decent vegetable oil is useful.

Tomato purée (in a tube).  Garlic, onions, oats, stock cubes.  Tinned tomatoes.  Store the garlic in the dark, so it takes longer to sprout.  A small (1 lb) bag of plain flour, which you should store in a plastic container (same goes for the oats).  Rice, also in a plastic container.
